Scott Paul is the associate director of
peace and security with Oxfam America
he's joining us from Washington DC thank
you very much for your time Mr Paul um
we're hearing that the first shipment of
Aid to the USB built floating pier in
Gaza has departed from Cyprus just how
much of a difference do these ships make
compared to what can come through land
Crossings thanks for having me on and I
appreciate hearing the testimonies of
people who are in Gaza now and um what
you'll hear uh having heard them is of
course every pallet every truckload of
Aid matters whether it's Food Water
Supplies medicine every little bit
matters but there's a separate question
as to whether uh a mechanism like this
is worth uh what it costs uh and worth
the amount of political attention and
political support that's necessary to
get it off the ground when the
alternative is that same political
pressure could be put on making sure
round routes are open which are more
scalable safer um able to transport much
much more assistance more directly to
people in need U so this Maritime
Corridor um if it if it transports Aid
then great but it doesn't solve the
fundamental problems that are driving
this humanitarian crisis and I know that
it's your job to advocate for all of
those things with the US government what
are you telling them especially you know
as the humanitarian situation in Gaza
are worsens by the day what are you
saying to the US government and what do
they say in response to
you well first and foremost what we're
telling the US government is that they
need to be putting all of their energy
and all of their political Capital
behind a ceasefire because there is
simply no way to meet the immense and
burgeoning needs of Palestinians in Gaza
under this level of violence and with
this level of humanitarian access as as
you mentioned at the top of this program
people in the north are either
experiencing famine or facing famine in
a matter of days um what's needed there
isn't just dramatically uh increased
amounts of food which which is needed
but you need broad medical interventions
toal with deal with the kind of severe
acute malnutrition we're seeing
particularly in children and that just
can't happen in a place that's under
constant bombardment where people aren't
allowed to go and where Health
Facilities aren't functioning so our our
primary message is uh all Aid rots of
course focus on the ground routs less so
on this Maritime Corridor um but we need
a ceasefire in order to do our jobs and
you know given just how much is at stake
for the 2.3 million people in Gaza how
does the US respond to your
concerns well the US government now over
uh over the past month month and a half
is on record supporting a ceasefire
they're not clear that they're
supporting a permanent ceasefire
immediately and I think that's getting
caught up a little bit into the details
of negotiations between the government
of Israel and Hamas um but the main
point of tension there um the place that
that the US government hasn't been
willing to go until late yesterday uh is
to really make sure that all of the US's
political and Military Leverage is used
to push the parties toward a ceas fire
and to push the government of Israel to
allow all of the uh all of the
assistance that people in Gaza so
desperately need to to move in um and
and uh I guess and most of all uh just
seeing what's unfolding to prevent this
major ground operation in Rafa from from
unfolding which would be so so damaging
not just for the people there uh who are
living in fear but for people all across
the god strip who depend on Rafa for uh
and as an a hub for humanitarian
assistance um and so what we're hoping
to see now is the US government further
lean into that posture and really do
everything it can to deescalate the
fighting increase access to Aid and push
for a ceasefire Scott Paul of Oxfam
America thank you very much for your
time make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer